all right let me set the context for
today's video today we have soul from
moonwalk moonwalk is a walk to earn
crypto application where you get
rewarded with crypto based on the number
of steps that you're taking in a day how
do you go from running a non- crypto
agency into the web3 world SW has also
been super active in the Ven and Bon
coin ecosystem so we'll understand his
journey over there as well as always we
have a $1,000 Bounty the Bounty is for a
accountability as a service application
a mobile application where you can come
pool in money with your friends let's
say $300 each and have a goal by the end
of it let's say 500 steps a day the
people who hit the goal get their money
back and the people who don't they get
the money from the other participants so
it's like a battle application where you
battle for accountability accountability
could be in terms of the number of steps
that you're taking the number of
push-ups that you're doing a specific
the number of hours that you're coding
and in the end The Winner Takes It All
Linked In the description is a detailed
requirement dock for the application I
hope to see a few of you on the Bounty
and with that let's get into the part
how do you prevent people from like
gaming the metrics we have definitely
people arriving to is there anything
specifically very challenging um in
building something like this or is this
more of a we two Challenge and a smart
contract on
top well the uh smart contract is very
simple it's essentially escrow um but it
is challenging because you mentioned
like you're working on you see a lot of
analytics data also you're training your
own model St like you know it's such a
buzzword right now we're um
um Ai and everything how do you build
the mindset within your team especially
the engineering team it's I one would
imag imagine that it's not easy to put
your heart and soul into building this
that entire feature it's a a spiritual
[Music]
experience hello hello hello everyone
welcome to the One D podcast with SW SW
so is currently the CTO of moonwalk he
has worked on so several of the most
impactful projects in solo from Bon to
venco to Goin it's so great to have you
here SW oh great to be here awesome to
be here I love that there's a room for
for us for us devs you know the the
people behind the
curtain y it's good to be here thank you
love to know your background world seems
like you've worked on a lot of things
starting off from you know Bon which is
one of the biggest be points today so
what's your story there what happened
how did you move to V then we would love
to know about
that yeah oh absolutely so you know I um
I started doing um design and
programming the left brain right brain
at the same time oneman shop uh as a
hobby uh you know I was just very
interested in software technology um web
apps web applications the hobby ended up
becoming um an agency uh in the United
States and ended up uh with very large
customers like uh you know customers
that you Fortune 500 customers and
employees and became start I started a
corporation um and have uh provided
consultation to very uh famous companies
and also nonprofit
organizations and then um web 3 came
around and I was like what
this you know cuz I was already like a a
a a a Trader by Hobby just you know U
getting into Finance uh and also getting
into art because uh art is f so so the
first for me the F uh first wave was the
nft world um so I was like oh wow this
is Art it's finance and it's
cryptography and programming like this
is amazing so um I took a risk I I I
took my company to web 3 I said you know
what this is cool let's go over here no
customers no
nothing and started working on um uh
various NFD projects like uh s cyber
Samurai and qux and uh you know bunch of
things that people will call rug
whatever but they weren't rug they're
just
we tried um and then uh you know one
thing led to another and I ended up uh
doing some consultation with the with
the Bon team and that led to uh an idea
of it's like hey how do we um how do we
give back to the world how we how do we
do something that's really interesting
that's not just like a defi project
where you where you arrive and you you
trade and you short or you go long or
like I mean those are cool too I do
those also but but how do we do
something that like my neighbor could
use that's on web 3 or even my mom and
how do we improve the the world and
people's mental health and your phys
physique so that's where we came up with
moonwalk uh moonwalk Fitness so we're we
were like okay let's do this we need to
give back like huge success with boncoin
fantastic but like what are we going to
do with that um and so uh through with
Bon's help and um and lots of devs lots
of Dev work and we'll get into that um
we created uh moonwalk Fitness which is
a fitness app built on top of
Solana uh it's a it's a game where you
get your friends together and uh you all
deposit if you do your steps you get
your money back at the end of the game
um which already is pretty cool because
that's like accountability to yourself
like I'm going to do my fitness and I'll
get my deposit back at the end if some
of your friends don't do the the goal
for any given day there's a deduction
and the winners of the game split the
deduction so like there's actually a
little there's a profit to it um profit
aspect and that was like already really
interesting it's like wait a minute we
just created yield without anything
weird without any like Ponzi economics
tokenomics without inflation nomics with
we with with without paying for it as an
entity like this literally is a smart
contract there's there's no centralized
Authority paying people the the friends
are paying each other I was like well
this is amazing like uh I mean it's
already marketed and and it's really to
to really help people and their Fitness
and stay accountable to their goals uh
but then there's also a profit aspect to
it and uh and it's just like when I came
to nfts I was like oh wow art
Finance programming perfect now it's
Fitness you know uh
Finance motivation mental health all
that and and so yeah moonwalk we
launched this thing we put it on
salana um it's it's doing it's doing
great uh we have huge goals for it we're
very early we just launched our app we
already have 108,000 users um and it's
pretty cool because the Third most
requested country to our servers is
India and I imagine that in India
there's quite a few people that want
Fitness finance and who walk a lot uh
maybe not in the middle of uh summer but
but you know you know walking can be
done also on a treadmill too but uh
anyways um you know that that's kind of
like my story and how I got to to
moonwalk I'm also because I'm um also
the uh CEO of a of an agency that's
still running I'm also uh uh running
other projects as well and a an lead
tech adviser for another really cool
project called golfin which is also
built on salana and it's taken the game
of golf and it's adding rewards and uh
this will come out in April uh we're
doing some fun things for the when coin
we're building a AI uh agent which is
basically all of meta right now
um and AI is super fun it's just like
where is this going to go it's it's it's
awesome and um you know close to my
heart is boncoin um that's you know
that's I I'm involved on the dev side
for many things there's lots of devs for
Bon like I'm not the dev for Bon I'm
just one of the
contributors um yes there you go I'm
rambling that's like kind of like the
history where we are today and lots of
um uh topics there that I'm happy to go
deeper
into yeah I mean before we dive in I
really have to thank you for Bon I think
it came it came in a time when you know
when it the entire salana ecosystem were
were going through the worst kind of
thing possible post FDX it it came as a
you know breath of fresh sh and the
morale boost for a lot of the devs I was
also one of the devs who received them
received it though I paper handed it
though I paper handed it like you know
oh fairly soon but yeah this is
something I you know my wife always
keeps telling me about you you literally
just paper handed a house well you think
about it you actually did the smart
thing because most of the time that's
the right thing to
do but yeah you never
know well yeah oh go ahead yeah go see
yeah so speaking speaking of moonwalk
right uh it's kind of fascinating what
the what the maturity has been from the
last cycle to this last cycle we saw you
know play to earn with taxi and then
from play to earn we came into this
place where you know you can now do step
walk to earn with stepen and so on and
now now it's actually you know you kind
of got to do the actual it you actually
have to not just game this but actually
take care of your fit Fitness right so I
imagine uh how do you prevent people
from like gaming the metrics for example
let's say you want to get like 30,000
steps like how do you actually know that
you know these 30,000 steps came
from our actual steps or you know they
just put it on a bike or something yeah
yeah no cheaters yeah so um we have uh
we have definitely people arriving to
farm because they think you know oh
bankk um uh and they're also receiving
funding from
binance oh what let's get our rewards so
they're you know they're setting up
multip accounts and we see all the data
don't they understand we see the
data it's it's going to be hard for them
in the long run to outsmart a Dev team
that sees everything like so um in the
very beginning we just actually let it
run because uh we're training our our
models to to understand uh to for the
det
detection um and you you know a little
bit of Word of Mouth right now can't
hurt we're just trying to build up build
it up and if people are telling their
friends oh something's coming you should
do this get go get a device or whatever
like a little bit of that buzz is okay
as long as we're monitoring it and we
don't let it affect the Optics of the
game and the rewards at the end and so
people are getting flagged I mean it's
people are boasting about cheating on
Twitter and they're posting it and and
like wondering why they're they're
flagged like two seconds later like I
don't know um it's just going to be
there it's going to be like X percentage
of people are trying to take advantage
especially in the you know dgen world
it's just part of this culture um our
goal is really to make it like you know
95%
pure yeah inter you mentioned like
you're working on you see a lot of
analytics data also you're training your
own models right like if that is
something that you if you would like to
talk about we could just go a little bit
deeper into it uh yeah so I mean right
um you know it's such a buzz word right
now word um um Ai and everything at the
very beginning you're just trying to
gather the the inputs you know and um
before AI is just one big switch
statement right you don't need AI for
that you could dump all the data into um
you know a postris database and do it
the old way but what we're looking at is
you know how do we use some of these
open- Source models to um come up with
the answer for us without a very large
switch statement and um yeah and you
know it's all in exper irental phase um
we're really excited about uh the open
source projects that are out there
obviously Eliza is very interesting um
it gives developers like us very easy
access with typescript to training the
models and um and then the plugins and
the you know the ways that you know it's
it's I feel like uh Eliza OS is uh
really the uh the future connection for
web 3 salana and not just Solana um to
to get involved with with the you know
all the new technology that's coming out
um until you know in in uh you know like
how are we exactly using it in Moonwalk
right now it's R&D we're just as long as
we can record that that's it I mean I
don't know if you've probably train
tried to work with models yourselves if
you give like 20 inputs to your model I
mean you you have garbage like it it's
AI doesn't know how to invent content
you can only create content or Answers
by context and the more contexts like if
you train it uh 20 things 200 things
2,000 things okay now we're talking
about something so it's like a dog can
bark but if you want it to do tricks
like you you need to train it right um
and so that you mean that's it and
that's um like this this year is
obviously or this last year this or this
part of the year um before uh uh you
know presidential memes is is AI meta
right
so we're as devs you have to pay
attention to that um you know um I have
I have some friends uh who you know that
are here in the same city that I live in
that um are behind the Griffin project
and and so like we're all just talking
and you know just exploring and um you
know sharing uh a little bit of info
with each other and in and trying to
expand this see where it can go
right very cool um so for U something
like moonwalk um I'm assuming it's not a
lot of like considering you've run an
agency it's not a lot of challenges like
it's probably one smart contract um that
everyone's hitting and you know other
than that it's a mobile application and
a web application Shake left I don't
know what happened there um but uh is
there anything specifically very
challenging um in building something
like this or is this more of a web two
Challenge and a smart contract on
top well the uh smart contract is very
simple it's essentially escro um but it
is challenging because
we're uh we feel like we're doing
something that hasn't been done we're
trying to give an adapt to your mom so
your mom doesn't know what a token
account is doesn't know what gas is
doesn't know what failed transactions
are doesn't know uh any of these things
and um you know I feel like the water
has gotten warmer and warmer and we've
all gotten used to all sorts of friction
and crap but you can't really uh you
can't really put a a mainstream through
so this is the challenge of moonwalk
getting your mom to use a
Dap um got it yeah so does
that go ahead yeah on that note I I saw
that you guys launch your mobile app
like I I was able to try out the
moonwalk app and it test
fly so first of all great experience uh
how do you speaking about taking these
applications especially you know
something like a fitness tracker it's
extremely mainstream everybody works and
everybody would want to be healthy right
so how do you how do you make decisions
around prod experiences or how do you
prioritize what feature to you know to
ship out
because when you're building a normal
consumer product you have like a clear
path laid out for you a clear set of uh
questions for you to ask so I'm curious
to understand from you know since you're
not not only with moonwalk but also with
C like it's like very broad-based
consumer experiences right so how do you
think
about product development in these
contexts especially making it
mainstream well uh it's inspired by web
to for sure like you know building
products and
features is it's it's the old it's the
old story uh but it's different because
there's some
trailblazing like you know we feel like
we are uh trying to push the boundary of
what's possible for um for Consumer apps
uh it our goal is that the salana
blockchain is just behind the scenes you
don't even know that it's there like
it's it's just the tech and and then you
have a very fluid experience um inside
the app and it feels like any app uh
that you would expect uh that and so
that means all of the features are
regular web 2 Concepts and reg regular
product development and then it's like
up for the dev team you know to like go
ah like how do we make this work um you
know and and you have to you can't think
of it like what's the possibility of
Solana and then build a product you got
to go the other
way how do we get people to move their
ass every day
and you know and what inspires them to
to get that achievement badge or I mean
you know that that's it like we we need
to look to the people before us who've
done very good jobs like dualingo and
straa and I mean that's where we're
going people say oh is this like
steeping I'm
like uh yeah you you're competing you're
you know there's crypto element but like
no this we we want you to compare it to
a web two app not to a web 3 app so I
mean that's the challenge but it's also
um it's also uh you know speaks to to
that like what how do we go about our
features um we have people in our team
that aren't web 3 devs that are are uh
brainstorming features that's that's the
trick right like like we we are going to
think of it different they're going to
be like oh no we can only have certain
amount of instructions per transaction
and uh you know we're going to like
approach it totally different like you
just welcome someone to the room that is
like just pure web 2 and and you you
know that's where you that's how you
approach
this W that's actually great in great
Insight I'm curious to like understand
it for you know as you constructed your
team M what what what is this like a
core guiding principle for you that is
like the problem statement is the main
thing and everybody comes on or in
service of that yeah yeah uh so yeah we
we have a small team we have
um um marvus who's uh he's not a a Dev
um you know and he's on the team he's an
idea guy like you know he's and that's
what we want we want him to remain
objective you know we want him to to
visualize um where this could go uh we
also have Caitlyn she's engaging with
real people all the time and can uh get
the feedback from the from the users and
and that's it like as smart as we think
we are no like the customer is right
like you know um you can't waterfall
your way into uh a a success you have to
Sprint your way to success and so um I
you know that's the cheesy thing and
people do Agile and all this stuff but
it really works like we we can only see
two weeks at a
time we and and so we throw it all into
Sprints and we're adapting and changing
as we go and it's it's not how you start
it's how you adapt right right like the
very first Instagram was not even called
Instagram it was called Bourbon and it
had like 10 features and photo filters
was like buried down it was like one
feature and then they look at the data
and they're like oh this is what
everyone's using how much time did it
take their devs to make the nine other
features it was probably their highest
priority they scrapped it and just went
with the most popular feature um you
know Tik Tok was musically musically was
a pretty complicated big huge thing way
more than uh what Tik Tok ended up so I
can't tell you what Moonwalks going to
look like in six months we're not
waterfalling here we are uh we're we're
going to adapt and build as we go and uh
and and you just have to never be
satisfied like uh you mentioned you're
on test flight like test flight are
happening every day we're releasing test
flights every single day and uh you know
and that's you just never satisfied
always make it better you you're fixing
bugs you're adding features you're
trying to break it you're trying to
remain cynical you're trying to remain
objective and um and and know that you
haven't earned anything just keep going
keep going like you might pivot you
might pivot one day like wait a minute
you know let's do this instead like
stuff like that can happen for
sure makes
sense yeah I I
think it's I have one more followup
question to that I think this is like so
true for building consumer apps
especially you know I would probably put
it like largely consumer somewhere in
the category of consumer social right
like you need millions and millions of
user lot of da use if you don't so the
the journey towards that is like you
know paved with a ton of abandoned
features or you know ton of engineering
work that gets
shelled so I'm curious to hear about
like how do
you one how do you build the mindset
within your team especially the
engineering team it's not I one would
imagine imagine that it's not easy to to
put your heart and soul into building
that that entire feature because you're
there you're also working on a crunch
time right you want to get this feature
out as quickly as possible so that you
you would test it so
um for especially the reason I'm asking
this question is for especially for
younger Engineers who want to work at
like hyperscale
startups uh how should they think about
you know putting so much am of effort
into building a fature that might so
happen you know that might just get
shelled yeah I mean it's you it's it's a
a spiritual experience like it's like
impermanence like impermanence is real
you just you put your best effort you
build you make magic but you you know
what like just look at just look at how
often you have to upgrade your your
laptops and your phones like the the
cables don't even work from X years ago
like all these tech companies are just
like oh my God we just spent all this
money on USB and now it's USBC and
like you have to break it and make it
better all the time and I mean that's I
every single day you it's different like
um I I don't know what challenges are
going to happen today every day is like
technology is changing every single
day and and you you can't you can't ever
you're never content in in development
and
programming and um you know developers
out there are attracted to programming
because they're like oh I can make money
doing programming but you have to
realize like you have to love problem
solving for the problem solving part of
it
right you're not putting trophies on
your wall you every single day is a new
problem like why does my npm not build
uh I wasn't expecting that today like
why is why are the um uh transactions on
Solana not Landing today wasn't
expecting that uh you know every day is
is
unknown every moment is unknown
that makes sense um yeah I agree I think
as a developer 90% of my code hasn't
really touched production ever um so
it's like part of being a developer is
you know knowing your code will get
migrated um depreciated or you know
never reach praud um I'm I'm interested
to know you mentioned you're building a
very web to experience um so that my
mother can use it U so are they expected
to have a phantom wallet or are you guys
doing private Key Management on your
side yeah so uh we we're trying to if
we're trying to mirror
like I can't I don't think I can look at
Tik Tok today but maybe you can but if
you go to the login page you'll see
continue
with they just have all the login
options and so that was our approach to
um instead of forcing someone to uh to
Phantom or to phone number or email or
we just try to have as many as possible
possible and um so the way we've divided
it is internal wallets versus external
wallets external wallets are Phantom
Soul flare backpack and the tip link
wallet which is connected to a Google
account um the internal wallets are um
email phone and uh Apple ID and and and
Google and they're using uh privy yeah
so we don't manage the uh which is great
privy is just fantastic they already
made a huge um U name for themselves in
the eth world uh they came over to
salana just last year moonwalk was uh
one of the first beta testers of this of
the salano product and um you know of
course uh privy
is they're they were behind friendtech
so they have a very good reputation and
um and it's uh honestly really easy for
a Dev to connect to it you just it's
there's
a um fantastic SDK and um and it just
works out of the box um which is rare
these days you know web 3 development is
it's so new that there's like bugs
there's like like a lot of a lot of
platforms you can connect with you can
just tell that it doesn't have that web
to polish right like imagine connecting
to stripe you would be surprised if
there was a bug right right it feels
professional in web three it's like
anything is possible like you know and
um and when we tried uh privy it was it
was actually a kind of like a strip like
experience yeah
very cool yeah that makes sense I think
every team we've talked to who are doing
wallet as a service are using preview or
web3 or one of these underhood so yeah
and there's other fantastic companies
we're using privy um you know the cool
thing about moonwalk is you don't have
to be loyal to your wallet um you know
we can add additional options onto our
list got it that's awesome I think em
wallers are one of those critical you
know kind of these friction layers if
they did not exist you can't really make
it easy for you know people like my mom
to use use the app I think they're
they're really good on prev a great
product
yeah so when we started moonwalk privy
wasn't on
Solana and we tested some other products
that were really good they were like 80%
there but you can tell they were still
working on it as
well but we're you know that's this goes
back to our previous conversation we
want an app that works for your mom the
dev team is going uh but it doesn't
exist well it does now right
like yeah so that's awesome yeah I'm
going to go I'm going to go get my mom
to use one work now going to put it on
our
phone let's
go okay uh Switching gears like we are
almost towards the end we are entering
the end stage of our wow podcast
uh so one thing that I would love to uh
are you hiring for any roles there close
to I I think they're close to 500k
subscribers are going to be watching
this so a lot of
devs you know if you're hiring for any
roles we could put it out
there I mean we're always looking for
talent I'm always looking for talent I
run an agency software agency as well um
and consult on many projects um I'm very
easy to find you know uh I'm SW soul on
telegram I'm SW soul on Twitter follow
me DM me um you know I'm not actively
looking for a specific role I just love
to build relationships um with people
and and and and if it's not for me it's
like you know it's expanding our Network
you know um this is an amazing
opportunity and for devs out there like
if you want to be a Toy Story toy on a
shelf next to all a million other toys
that all say I do react I do react I do
go ahead but if you get into web 3
you're you're going to be the special
toy that everybody wants and uh because
this is an emerging it's emerging
industry it's uh still the ground floor
it's still so much upside um you know it
you know this this the world this is the
future right now and so uh this is the
time to make all your
contacts um you know reach out to me
I'll be one of your
contacts but uh don't stop there you
know talk to people don't be shy uh
that's how you're going to get your next
role in some really cool
project that's great I think that's a
great note to end the podcast on um it
was very nice talking to you Soul um if
you don't mind thank you do you mind
jamming for us a bit I don't think me
and Shake play at all but if you have a
minute oh yeah yeah we are happy to keep
our guitar in the scen for
one why why all have guitars near their
[Music]
Des yeah just uh you gota you got to
have a guitar you got to do you have to
do Hobbies like we're programming all
the time and we're chasing after those
problems remember we said that like it's
very addictive it's like okay next
problem next problem next problem what
it's 8:00 at night oh wait one more
problem to solve one more problem wait
wait wait wait you gotta like enjoy life
too like you gotta play guitar you got
to go for a walk you got to get your
exercise whatever makes you happy
right what a great
note that's awesome thank you so much
for joining us so we could post one with
the guitar for the
thumbnail
okay oh hey wait wait yeah well this is
for the yeah all right wa same position
all right let's go
lfg
lfg all right thank you all right take
care
awesome all right enjoy thank you
appreciate y'all all right I'm out SW
soul out thank you so much SW bye